You know the folks you see on HouseHunters who insist they need a huge open space to entertain all their many friends? And you (the person binging on HouseHunters and oreos alone on the couch) can’t help but think, Who ARE these people with so many “friends” and so many “parties” to attend? If I didn’t know better, I’d think they were making it all up to look cool on national television. But I do know better, because I know Nick. He’s our friend who enlisted me to decorate his place in DC, and I’m convinced he has a close personal friend in the city for every single person I interact with in a three-month period, including cashiers, bus drivers and security guards. He’s just a magnetic, likable, interesting guy. He throws dinner parties and happy hours like nobody’s business, and he was starting to get a little self-conscious about being a real-life adult living in a manchild bachelor pad. He’s at the point in life where he wants his home to feel grown-up and settled, and he really wants it to serve as a welcoming and comfortable space for entertaining. 

** BEFORE PICTURES ** 

His place is dripping in potential, so when he asked for my help I couldn’t say yes fast enough. It’s HUGE by city standards, with an open floor plan, gobs (I mean GOBS) of natural light, and a landlord who is game to make some improvements. That’s right – landlord, we’ll call him LL for short. This is a rental, which means the sky is not the limit, but I’m excited to see (and show) what’s possible without going overboard. The LL has agreed to replace the shabby (cross out) broken window blinds with some roman shades I picked out, paint the (water-damaged) walls a color he agrees to, and even make some big (low-cost) improvements in the kitchen (hint: the top cabinets are falling off the walls). I’m not sure how Nick got him to agree to all that – he should probably get a diplomatic medal of honor – but I’m pretty stoked about it. My guess is it has something to do with Nick being a dream tenant for the last 5 years and his not planning on leaving anytime soon. 

That said, most of Nick’s own money in the space should go toward things he can take with him. He has most of the big pieces already – a sectional sofa he purchased last year, a dining table, a credenza, and a TV. Everything else is fair game.

The first thing on the chopping block is the rug. The current 4 x 6 shag was a quick buy on Amazon, and it’s about a third of the size this room needs. We’re upgrading to a 9 x 12, which is big enough for each end of the sectional to get a leg on. A rug that big would usually cost an arm, a leg and maybe your firstborn, too, but RugsUSA runs 75% off deals all the time making it very reasonable. Since we’re going safe on the wall color (remember LL is making the final call), and given that the sofa is a huge swath of gray, I picked out this blue-and-white moroccan shag to bring in some color and personality. I’ll carry the blues around the room with decorative accents, like vases, pillows and artwork, and inject some more life into the space with vibrant plants. My “fickle” leaf fig went on strike (overdue for an update on that), but I bet he has a lively friend who would LOVE to chill in the sun at Nick’s. 

Second order of bidness: seating. Nick needs the kind that’s always available (like a cute, new accent chair), as well as the kind that can be stashed out of the way during business hours. I’m a fan of the Oswald tufted slipper chair from West Elm – it’s low-profile, reasonably comfortable and the frame gives it just a little touch of quirk. For stashable seating, I opted for the Terje folding chairs from Ikea – they’re affordable, easy to find if we need more, and they’re wooden. They feel sturdier than plastic folding chairs and classier than your basic metal option, plus they’re more comfortable than a backless stool. You know you’re an adult when back support factors into your design choices. The Terje’s back has a convenient hole for hanging, so rather than take up precious closet space, we’re gonna keep them on the inset wall by the juliet balcony – out of the way but within arm’s reach.

The new coffee table will follow the same ethos – there when you need it, gone when you don’t. Nick loves having the ottoman in front of the couch for vegging out (who wouldn’t?!), but he could really use some more surfaces for guests to set down drinks and plates when he’s entertaining. We’re gonna bring in side tables, trays and a fold-away coffee table … probably similar to my own where the top just lifts up and the legs fold together so you can stash it when you need the floor.

Next thing we need for parties (and everyday life) : mood lighting. This apartment has more windows than I thought possible on a row house. It’s amazing during the day – the light streams in from all directions – but it’s seriously lacking at night. No dinner party (or room, for that matter) should be without mood lighting, y’all! So we’re bringing in some funky plug-in sconces, table lamps, and a big pendant over the dining table. 

Speaking of the dining table – it’s usually used as a desk, complete with a big iMac and paperwork spread out. I want to change that. The thing is, this table is basically the first thing you see when you come up the stairs into the main living area, and I can’t help but think it must be a wee-bit demoralizing to finish working a 12-hour day, climb 40 stairs up to your apartment and then immediately be greeted by more work you could be doing. ThanksButNoThanks! Instead, I want the table to be a nice focal point that says, “Hooray! You made it! You’re home! Dinner is on its way! Make yourself comfortable!” Y’know? So I’m banishing the iMac from the table and creating an office nook where the Billy bookcase is now. We’ll get a wall-mounted desk that has shelves overhead so we aren’t losing that storage space, and what doesn’t fit on the new shelves will go inside the existing credenza. We’re gonna move the credenza from behind the table (where space is tight) to the niche by the juliet balcony. It’s already hiding the printer, so it makes sense to keep it close to the office space, and it gives us more room to seat people for dinner parties. We’ll top it all off with a funkier lamp and turn the tabletop into a drink station for parties.

The last big item I want to replace is the TV stand. It’s tough to make a TV look nice, but a sharper, brighter media stand with some closed storage would certainly help. The current stand blends in with the TV in terms of width and color, and together they just make a bigger eyesore. Plus, the stand is only a couple inches wider than the TV itself, so stuff is literally falling off the sides and we’ve got about a foot more to work with. I want to get a stand like the Stockholm from Ikea, which would make better use of the space while still being low-profile and visually light. In case you’re wondering how practical it is to put your cable box behind a door, allow me to introduce you to the narrow band antenna. You can hide your cable box and eat it too! Uhhhh… I mean you don’t have to be able to point the remote or even see the cable box to be able to control it with an antenna like this. Forget ____, THIS is God’s gift to man. ;)

Blasphemy aside, this living/dining room is going to be pretty kickass. I’ve spent about XXX words already, so I’ll save the kitchen for a different post. 

http://www.universalremote.com/product_details.php?id=54&s=commercial&c=controllers&p=RFX-250


coffee table – you just call out “annie get the legs!” and bam


